---
layout: post
title: HTA 8.1; Spinoza; Ethics [1677]; Part One [Overview, 1677-2022]
abstract: This episode is part one [Overview, 1677-2022] of seven of the lecture series [HTA 8] on affect theory grounded in Baruch Spinoza's Ethics [1677], excerpt from Part III, and developed through the writings, seminars, and interviews of Walter Benjamin [1940], Gilles Deleuze [1981], Brian Massumi [2015], Justin Hill [2019], and Ed Casey [2022].
podcast:
  episode: 81
  file: HTA8Spinoza1.mp3
  recording_date: 2025-10-06
course:
  - 1301
---

## Exemplar Annotations

* Baruch Spinoza, [*Ethics*, excerpt from Part III]({{ site.url }}/assets/pdfs/annotations/spinoza-ethics-hillj-annotations.pdf){:target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener"} [1677], in *Philosophy of Benedict de Spinoza*, New Edition, trans. R.H.M. Elwes (New York: Tudor Publishing, Co., 1936), 127-35.

* Frank Sewall, M.A., ["Introduction"]({{ site.url }}/assets/pdfs/annotations/spinoza-sewall-introduction-hillj-annotations.pdf){:target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener"}, in *Philosophy of Benedict de Spinoza*, New Edition, trans. R.H.M. Elwes (New York: Tudor Publishing, Co., 1936), v-xii.

* Brian Massumi, [*Politics of Affect*, Preface and excerpt from Ch. 1]({{ site.url }}/assets/pdfs/annotations/massumi-politics-affect-preface-ch1-hillj-annotations.pdf){:target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener"} (Cambridge, UK / Malden, MA: Polity Press, 2015), vii-xvi, 1-14.

* Justin A. Hill, "[Affect, Fields of Immi(a)nence, and Differential Attunement in Massumi's *Politics of Affect*]({{ site.url }}/assets/pdfs/annotations/massumi-politics-affect-hillj-review.pdf){:target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener"}."

<br>


## Guiding Questions

#### Baruch Spinoza [1677]

* How does affect refer to emotion, gesture, mood, feeling, impact, cause, effect, capacity, potential, power, and knowledge all at once?

* How does affect get at self-other all at once in the simultaneity of (1)affecting-(2)being-affected, i.e., (1)being-affected-(2)affecting?

* How does affect offer conceptual constructions for a non-linear and zonal metaphysics, i.e., how does affect allow us to think about environments and systems of causation more fluidly and flexibly as a field rather than as causal ‘arrow’ or throughline? Use an example.

* How does individual and environmental historicity impact affect and freedom?


#### Walter Benjamin [1940]

* What is *weak* messianism? How does it differ from *strong* messianism?

* How can the dead speak again (through re-interpretation)?

* What do we owe to the dead and the suffered?

* How do history and interpretation impact affect? How does affect impact history and interpretation?


#### Gilles Deleuze [1981]

* What are Deleuze’s two types of power? (external power which delimits our energies and opportunities [sometimes away from danger]; and internal capacity which enables/empowers us)

* To which two general emotions do these two types of power correlate in direct experience, according to Spinoza? (joy and sadness; wild winds and depressions)


#### Brian Massumi [2015]

* How does Massumi bring Spinozan affect into process-relational thought?

* What real-world impacts does affect theory have? What crises does affect theory (e.g., Spinoza, Benjamin, Deleuze, Massumi, Whitman) resolve or inform?

* How can understanding historicized zonal process affect aid global well-being?


#### Justin A. Hill [2019]

* Why does Benjamin argue passive absorption is more effective than active contemplation, which Adorno nevertheless defends?

* How does Spinozan affect theory defend Benjamin's position from Adorno's critique?


#### Edward S. Casey [2022]

* Which aspects of affect theory are still unclear?

* How do periphanous models of emotion, of thinking, of consciousness, and of transpersonal interbeing flesh out Spinozism?

* How do edges and peri-phenomenology offer paths forward for thinking affect anew? How do they justify our perceptions and convictions?
